---
title: "Preface to Historia Ecclesiastica"
subtitle: |
	An Open Greek and Latin Edition \ 
author: "Kirsopp Lake"
header-includes: | 
	\usepackage{fancyhdr}
	\pagestyle{fancy}
	\fancyhead[CO,CE]{}
	\fancyfoot[CO,CE]{OGL Edition, CC-BY-SA 4.0}
	\fancyfoot[LE,RO]{\thepage}
thanks: "This work has been produced by the Open Greek and Latin project through the help of volunteers. See contributions for details."
...

# Contributions


### Editor-In-Chief, Perseus Digital Library

Gregory R. Crane  
  
### Corrected And Encoded The Text

Digital Divide Data  
  
### Project Manager (University Of Leipzig)

Matt Munson  
  
### Project Assistant (University Of Leipzig)

Annette Geßner  
  
### Lead Developer (University Of Leipzig)

Thibault Clérice  
  
### Technical Advisor

Bruce Robertson  
  
### Project Manager (University Of Leipzig), 2013-2014

Greta Franzini  
  
### Technical Manager (University Of Leipzig), 2013-2015

Frederik Baumgardt  
  
### Project Assistant (University Of Leipzig), 2013-2014

Simona Stoyanova  
  
### Markdown and PDF Production

This version was produced by [TEItoCEX](https://github.com/ThomasK81/TEItoCEX) written by Thomas Koentges.

# Preface to Historia Ecclesiastica

### Paragraph 1

<p>THE text of the Historia Ecclesiastica of Eusebius in
          the following pages is that of E. Schwartz in volumes
          i and ii. of Part II. of the edition of Eusebius in
          Die griechischen christlichen Schriftsteller der erstern
          drei Gahrhunderte, published by the Berlin Academy.
          Changes have only been introduced in a few very
          small points, such as the accentuation of the proper
          names in the genealogy of Christ.</p>


### Paragraph 2

<p>I am most grateful to the Academy for its kindness
          in allowing me the use of this magnificent
          example of how a text ought to be edited.</p>


### Paragraph 3

<p>In preparing the English I have in difficult passages
          frequently consulted the translation of A.C.M‘Giffert
          and have derived much benefit from his notes. I
          am also greatly indebted to my friends Mrs.
          Frederick Winslow, Professor Robert P. Blake, who
          read proof-sheets and suggested many improvements,
          and Miss Edith Coe, who helped at every stage,
          and undertook the laborious work of verifying and
          inserting the references which were taken from
          Schwartz.</p>

